
# CS 374
```
collatz(n):
  if n == 1:
    return True
  if n is even:
    n = n/2
  else:
    n = 3n+1
```
Does this program ever stop?
#
## Induction/Recursion
#### Strings
- **Definition of String:** A String is a *Sequence* of characters or symbols of an *Alphabet*
	- either empty $\epsilon$
	- or $a \cdot x$
- A Sequence is just an ordered set
- An Alphabet $\Sigma$ is a finite set
- ie. Sentences are an examples of a String
- **Definition of Length:** Length $|w|$ of string $w$ is $0$ if $w = \epsilon$ or $1 + |x|$ if $w = a\cdot x$
- Concatenation is defined as $w || z$ or $(w \bullet z)$
	- $w = CAT$ and $z = FISH$, $w||z$ = $CAT || FISH$ = $C\cdot AT || F\cdot ISH$ = $C\cdot (AT || FISH)$
	- **Definition of Concatenation:** $w || z = z$ if $w = \epsilon$ or $a\cdot (x||z)$ if $w = a\cdot x$ 
- Basically think of it as breaking down that first word into a bunch of concatenations and parenthesis, base case is the second word, and then slowly concatenate the first word onto the second word from right to left.
- **IMPORTANT: Make sure to include $\epsilon$. EVERY SINGLE STEP SHOULD USE A COMPLETELY DEFINED PROPERTY OR DEFINITION.**

#### Formally Proven Example
Theorem: For all strings $w$ and $z$, $|w || z| = |w| + |z|$.
#
**Note**: In order to prove for all arbitrary strings, we should assume $w$ and $z$ as two arbitrary strings instead of proven it for every single string.
**IMPORTANT: Always include something of the same type as "Let w and z be 2 arbitrary strings".**

*Proof*:
Let $w$ and $z$ be 2 arbitrary strings.
Recall: $w || z$ =
- $z$ if $w = \epsilon$
- $a \cdot (x || z)$ if $w = a\cdot x$

Induction Hypothesis (IH): Assume $|x || z| = |x| + |z|, For all strings $x$ st. $|x| < |w|$, For all strings $z$.
-- We can assume this because $|x| < |w|$ as we already proved for strings of length 0, so $0 \rightarrow 1$, $1\rightarrow 2$, etc.
**Note**: Note the location of the Induction Hypothesis as being placed before when we use it.


There are 2 cases:
1) $w = \epsilon$
$|w || z| = |\epsilon || z| = |z| = 0 + |z| = |\epsilon| + |z| = |w| + |z|$
**Note**: It will prove useful and helpful to note every single definition next to the part you use it for.

2) $w = a\cdot x$
$|w ||  z| = |(a \cdot x) || z| = |a\cdot (x||z)|$ (def of concat.) $= 1 + |(x || z)| = 1 + |x| + |z|$ (by IH) $= |a\cdot x| + |z|$ (by def of length) $= |w| + |z|$ (by $w = a\cdot x$)

#

### Induction Boilerplate
Thm: Every string is "ZOWZY"
Proof: Let $w$ be an arbitrary string.
IH (Strong IH): Assume for every $x$ where $|x| < |w|$, that $x$ is "ZOWZY"
**Note**: For Strong IH, start assuming from $n-1$ to imply $n$
If $w = \epsilon$ ... $\rightarrow w$ is "ZOWZY"
If $w = a\cdot x$ ... $\rightarrow w$ is "ZOWZY" using the IH somewhere
In both cases, $w$ is "ZOWZY"