DFA $M$: 
- $Q$ - states
- $s\in Q$ - start state
- $A\subseteq Q$ - accepting states
- $\Sigma$ - alphabet
- $S: Q\times\Sigma\rightarrow Q$
- $S^*:Q\times\Sigma^*\rightarrow Q$
- $S^*(q,w) =$
	- $q$ if $w = \epsilon$
	- $S^*(S(q,a),x)$ if $w = a\cdot x$
- $M$ accepts $w \Leftrightarrow S^*(s,w) \in A$
- $L(M) = \{w|\delta(s,w)\in A\}$

**Complement** of the Regular Expression can be $\bar{A}$ (or $Q \setminus A$) where you basically draw double circles on the single circles, and single circles on the double circles to invert it.
***
## Product Construction
In a product construction, every state is a tuple of states, such that you build 

Draw the top one, draw the left one, and say "I want to construct a product construction". **Make sure to show which ones are the accepting state.**

*pic of product construction where (3,1) and (3,2) are not doubled, all else are*

Example: If 00 then 11 + accept all strings without 00

$M_1 = (Q_1, S_1, A_1, S_1)$ 
$M_2 = (Q_2, S_2, A_2, S_2)$ - same alphabet as above
Define $M = (Q, S, A, S)$
$Q = Q_1 \times Q_2 = \{(q_1, q_2): q_1 \in Q_1, q_2 \in Q_2\}$
$s = (s_1, s_2)$
$A = \{(q_1, q_2)| q_1\in A_1 \text{[**your operator here**]} q_2 \in A_2\}$
$\delta((q_1,q_2), a) = (\delta_1(q_1, a), \delta_2(q_2, a))$

***
Lemma: $\delta^*((q_1,q_2), w) = (\delta_1^*(q_1, w), \delta_2^*(q_2, w))$
For all $w$, for all states $p\in Q_1, q\in Q_2$

Proof:
Let $w$ be an arbit. string, $p,q$ be arbitrary states.
I.H.: Assume for a string $x$ where $|x| < |w|$, $\delta^*((p',q'), x) = (\delta_1^*(p', x), \delta_2^*(q', x))$ for all $p'\in Q_1, q'\in Q_2$.

Case 1: $w = \epsilon$
$\delta^*((p,q), w) = \delta^*((p,q), \epsilon)$ (Substitution)
$= (p,q)$ (Definition of $\delta^*$)
$= (\delta_1^*(p, \epsilon), \delta_2^*(q, \epsilon))$ (Definition of $\delta^*$)
$= (\delta_1^*(p, w), \delta_2^*(q, w))$ (Substitution)

Case 2: $w = a\cdot x$
$\delta^*((p,q), w) = \delta^*((p,q), a\cdot x)$ (Substitution)
$= \delta^*(\delta((p,q), a), x)$ (Definition of $\delta^*$)
$= \delta^*((\delta(p, a), \delta(q, a)), x)$ (Def. of Product Construction???)
$= (\delta_1^*(\delta(p, a), x), \delta_2^*(\delta(q,a), x))$ (I.H. $p' = \delta(p,a), q' = \delta(q,a)$)
$= \delta_1^*(p, w), \delta_2^*(q,w)$ (???)

#
### Kleene's Theorem:
Every Regular Language is automatic and vice versa. (a.k.a the formulation is equivalent)

**IMPORTANT:** One consequence of this theorem is, by definition of regular/automatic, 

If $L_1$ and $L_2$ are regular, $L_1 \cup L_2$, $L_1 \bullet L_2$, $L_1^*$, and $L_2^*$ are automatic/regular.

If $L_1$ and $L_2$ are automatic, so are $L_1 \cup L_2$ (Product construction with AND accepting), $L_1 \cup L_2$, $L_1/L_2$, $L_1 \oplus L_2$, $\bar{L_1} = \Sigma^* \setminus L_1$ and $\bar{L_2}$

***
Example:
$L = \{0^n1^n|n\geq 0\}$

How should we prove that a language is NOT regular?
To recognize this language, $n$ could be anything (ie. infinite), and we need a memory to store how many $0$s for example, but we can't save information other than ending up in a state. 

Distinguishable states:
$(p,q)$ are distinguishable if there is a string s.t. the extended string transition function ($\delta^*(p,w))$) is not in Accept ($A$), but ($\delta^*(q,w)$) not in Accept or vice-versa.

If we have non-distinguishable states, then we can put them into the same set, then we can use one node for every set such that we can collapse redundancies (think convergence)