Today:
- Wireless recap
- Autoencoders for PHY
- Modulation Identification

## Modulation
We are trying to transmit a sequence of bits, and we can transmit the bits into an encoding to $x$. For example, this could be BPSK or on-off keying. 

We receive $y$ where $y = hx$ and $h$ is a complex number representing the wireless channel. We defined SNR as $\frac{|hx|}{|n|}$ where $n$ is noise.

## ...
"narrow band" channel $\rightarrow$ ...
"wide band" channel $\rightarrow$ signal is transmitted at multiple frequencies.

WiFi $f$: 2.4 GHz ~$2.4\times10^9$Hz
Bandwidth (aka width of usable space centered around 2.4Hz): 20 MHz
We call these multiple bands we have *subbands* or *subfrequencies*.

How does HW create the signal?
Option 1: I create 64 independent signals at 2.4GHz +- slight variation and add them up
Option 2: Create a signal around a low frequency and then change the frequency. We do something called upconversion where you generate it at a low frequency (because its easier to operate hardware at lower frequencies). For example, we start encoding from maybe 0 to 20MHz, and then when we transmit we then add the 2.4GHz in order to get to high frequency.

Then when the other device receives it, it does the down conversion

## Carrier Phase Offset
Upconvertion (add) $\rightarrow f_{up}$ (large freq)
Downconvertion (down) $\rightarrow f_{down}$

Usually $f_{up} = f_{down}$ but there might be small errors (ie. 2.401 Ghz vs. 2.398 Ghz).
1. If nothing changes in the environment, my signal still changes, because the frequency I'm adding is different than the freuqnecy im subtracting from my signal. The difference in this frequency is called the Carrier Frequency Offset (CFO), and so we end up continuing to add the difference in phase continually. 

Modulation/Coding, Upconversion, Tx
Rx, Downconversion, etc.

## ML vs. Manual
A lot of theory into what a good modulation is.

ML:
- Save human power
- adaptable/end-to-end
- robust/generalizable
- Con- Test set distribution != training

Manual:
- We've already developed pretty good modulation/demod, etc.
- Intepretability
- ...

## Images vs. RF
So how is RF different from Images in terms of ML?
1. Real vs. Complex
2. Sources of noise
	- In images if we are trying to find a cat, noise can be brightness, contrst, resolution, background
	- In RF we have Gaussian noise, multipath, CFO, hardware variation, interference
...

## Autoencoders
$x \rightarrow f(x) \rightarrow$ representation ...
...

