## Morality
Normative vs. Descriptive
- descriptive: the way people are (facts)
	- Sociologists, psychologists, etc.
- normative: the way people should be (values)
	- Ethicists

**Morality**
System of rules for guiding human conduct
System of principles ofr evaluating those rules
Purpose: prevent or alleviate harm and suffering
Also (possibly) to promote human flourishing

**Moral system** - Bernard Gert
- Public: everyone knows the rules
- Informal: not enforced by law
- Rational: based on principles of logic and reason understood by all *moral agents*
	- **Moral Agents**: The people who the moral system applies to
- Impartial: moral rules are designed to apply equitably to all participants

Common Hesitations
1. People disagree
	1. experts in many fields disagree
	2. we agree on many moral issues
	3. we can agree on *principles* while disagreeing about facts
2. Who am I to judge others?
	1. we can judge people all the time
	2. we can judge without condemning
3. Morality is a personal choice
	1. This is an oxymoron (self-contradictory); Morals are *public*
	2. This is ***moral subjectivism*** - individuals decide what is moral
4. Morality is cultural
	1. **Cultural relativism** - different cultures have different beliefs about what is moral (descriptive) (is)
	2. **Moral relativism** - we should not morally evaluate other moral systems, because there is no objective morality (normative) (ought)
	3. *Cultural relativsm* does not imply *moral relativism* - **Naturalistic Fallacy**, see things in world and it be what it be
	4. **Moral absolutism** - only one correct answer to any moral question
	5. *moral absolutism* vs. *moral relativism* is a false dilemma

**Ethics**
	1. The philosophical study of morality
	2. Moral principles grounded in philosophy

**Ethical Theories**
- Criteria for an ethical theory:
	- internally coherent and consistent
	- comprehensive
	- systematic

Theories:
**1. Consequence-based (utilitarian ethics)**
**2. Duty-based (deontological ethics)**
**3. Character-based (virtue ethics)**
***
### Consequence-based Ethics - Jeremy Bentham
- Primary goal of moral system is to produce desirable outcomes for moral agents
- Happiness is instrinsically good, so maximize happiness
- The *outcome* is what utlimately matters
- **Note**: intended outcome vs. actual outcome

### Duty-based Ethics - Immanuel Kant
- Morality is grounded in moral agents' obligations to one another
- The *will* to do good in an intrinsic good, regardless of outcome
- Duty (moral rules) are grounded in logic and reason
- **Categorical imperative** - always act on that *maxim* whereby you can, at the same time, will that it should become a universal law
- Treat other people the way you want everyone to treat everybody else all the time
- *Intent* is what ultimately matters
- **Important**: If we are ever using another person as a means to an end, especially an end that they don't hold themselves, don't do it.
- Just got to get a good enough reason. If it ain't then outcome doesn't matter.

<!-- I would want everyone to follow *this* rule??? -->

If I was ok with it, would it be ok for everyone?
If I was not ok with it, would it be not ok for everyone?

### Character-based Ethics
- Morality is grounded in *virtues*
- Try to be the kind of person who is admired
- Cultivating virtues makes you a better person
- The right actions flow naturally from being virtuous
- Virtue typically lies between extremes (vices).
- Leads to ***eudaimonia*** - human flourishing
- ...
