## Lecture 3: Logical Argumentation
### Cyberethics
- **Cyber** = computing + networking; James Moor said this was important to create its own branch of ethics
- Cybertechnology is logically malleable
- Generates new possibilities of human interaction

Novel Difficulties
- Policity vacuum - technology developed before policies are put in place
- Conceptual muddles - technology confusions previously distinct concepts

**Disclosive Model** - Philip Brey
- Some features are **morally opaque** (aka don't know what is bad until we think for a hot sec)

Tavani's Method
1. Identify the practice or feature
	1. Disclose morally opaque features
	2. Assess sociological implications
	3. Search for existing policies or ethical codes
2. Analyze the ???
3. Deliberate on the eethical issue
	1. Apply one or more ethical theories
	2. Justify the position using logical argumentation

Logical Argumentation:
- Method used to test an ethical thesis
- Claim - a statement or assertion
- Argument - a series of claims aimed at establishing the truth of one central claim (the conclusion)
- Premise $\rightarrow$ conclusion

Argument Types
- A **sound** argument has all true premises, and the conclusion *must logically* follow from the premises
- An **inductive** argument has true premises and the conclusion *likely* follows from the premises
- An **unsound** argument has one or more false premises
- A **fallacious** argument is one whose premises are *irrelevant* to the conclusion

**Non Sequitor** 
- the conclusion doesn't follow from the premises
- technically, all fallacies are non sequitors

**Assuming the Consequent**
- Reversing the direction of an implication
- If P $\rightarrow$ Q, then Q $\rightarrow$ P

**Appeal to X**
- X $\in \{$popularity, consequences, emotion, novelty, tradition, authority, threat$\}$
- If this is true, then things that I don't want to be real would be True, so this is false

**Ad Hominem**
- attacking a persion *instead of* their argument

**Complex Question**
- Sneaking a premise into a question (ie. How often do you steal from your neighbor?)
- Sometimes an ad hominem

**Tu Quoque**
- Dismissing a moral argument by pointing out the hypocrisy of the proponent
- "two wrongs make a right"
- ie. How can you say it's wrong to lie? I'm sure you've been dishonest before.

**Nautralistic Fallacy**
- inferring ought from is ("This is the way things are, therefore this is the way things should be")
- Establishing normative (values) from description (facts)
- This is *not* an appeal to nature
- ie. If I don't steal this laptop, then someone else will, so it is not ethical

**Moralistic Fallacy**
- inferring is from ought
- ie. Someone's not going to steal my laptop because it's not right

**False Dilemma**
- Limited choices, (this or that)

**Begging the Question**
- Assume the conclusion in your argument
- "circular reasoning"
- ie. We know software piracy is unethical, because it is illegal. If it were moral, it wouldn't be against the law

**Equivocation**
- Use ambiguity of meaning to mislead an argument

**Argument to Moderation**
- Assuming the middle of two positions is correct

**Special Pleading**
- Apply inconsistent standard without justification
- Holding a double standard

**No True Scotsman**
- Arbitrarily exclude examples that disprove a claim
- ie. Apple hasn't created a new product since the iPad. What about the Apple Watch? Is that really a new product?

**False Analogy**
- Assuming that things that are similar in some way must be similar in others

**Strawman Argument**
- Ignoring opponent's argument and refuting a weaker argument

**Genetic Fallacy**
- Assuming the origin of a claim is evidence for or against it
- ie. Christians shouldn't celebrate Christmas because it's pagan.

**Argument From Ignorance**
- Arguing that a claim is true because we can't prove the claim is false
- "shifting the burden of proof"

**Slippery Slope**
- Arguing that one event must inevitably follow from another without justification

**Fallacy Fallacy**
- Assuming an argument is false because a logical fallacy is present